CONTRIBUTING.md, before:


# Contributing to Autotune

Thank you for your interest in Autotune! We welcome your contributions to the project.

## Submitting a contribution to Autotune

Autotune Project is [Apache 2.0](https://github.com/kruize/autotune/blob/master/LICENSE) licensed and uses GitHub to manage reviews of pull requests. This document outlines the contribution workflow, commit message formatting, contact details and other resources to make it easier to get your contribution accepted.


### Contribution work flow 

These steps outline the general contribution workflow:

- Fork and set up the Autotune repository on your workstation (see [Fork and clone Autotune repo]((https://github.com/kruize/autotune/blob/master/docs/fork_and_clone.md))
- Create a topic branch from where you want to base your work (usually master)
- Follow coding guidelines while making code changes
- Install the required software to build and deploy autotune (see [Autotune Installation](https://github.com/kruize/autotune/blob/master/docs/autotune_install.md))
- Make sure the tests pass, add any new tests if appropriate (see [Autotune tests](https://github.com/kruize/autotune/blob/master/tests/README.md))
- Make commits of logical units
- Make sure your commit messages are in the proper format (see [below](#Commit-Message))
- Push your changes to a topic branch in your fork of the repository
- Submit a pull request to the original repository 
- Ensure the PR checks pass
- Have any queries, contact us on [kruize autotune](https://kruizeworkspace.slack.com/archives/C01R7HV4LPN) slack

### Commit Message

The commit message should indicate what has changed and why the change was made. Sign off on your commit in the footer. By doing this, you assert original authorship of the commit and that you are permitted to contribute it. This can be automatically added to your commit by passing -s to git commit, or by manually adding the following line to the footer of the commit.

```
Signed-off-by: Full Name <email>

```

Thank you for contributing!

Commit message:

Updated Contributing.md to add a link to a github doc
Signed-off-by: Chandrakala Subramanyam <csubrama@redhat.com>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:


# Contributing to Autotune

Thank you for your interest in Autotune! We welcome your contributions to the project.

## Submitting a contribution to Autotune

Autotune Project is [Apache 2.0](https://github.com/kruize/autotune/blob/master/LICENSE) licensed and uses GitHub to manage reviews of pull requests. This document outlines the contribution workflow, commit message formatting, contact details and other resources to make it easier to get your contribution accepted.


### Contribution work flow 

These steps outline the general contribution workflow:

- Fork and set up the Autotune repository on your workstation
- Create a topic branch from where you want to base your work (usually master)
- Follow coding guidelines while making code changes
- Install the required software to build and deploy autotune (see [Autotune Installation](https://github.com/kruize/autotune/blob/master/docs/autotune_install.md))
- Make sure the tests pass, add any new tests if appropriate (see [Autotune tests](https://github.com/kruize/autotune/blob/master/tests/README.md))
- Make commits of logical units
- Make sure your commit messages are in the proper format (see [below](#Commit-Message))
- Push your changes to a topic branch in your fork of the repository
- Submit a pull request to the original repository 
- Ensure the PR checks pass
- Have any queries, contact us on [kruize autotune](https://kruizeworkspace.slack.com/archives/C01R7HV4LPN) slack

If this is your first pull request on github, click [here](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-make-your-first-pull-request-on-github-3/) to quickly get started.

### Commit Message

The commit message should indicate what has changed and why the change was made. Sign off on your commit in the footer. By doing this, you assert original authorship of the commit and that you are permitted to contribute it. This can be automatically added to your commit by passing -s to git commit, or by manually adding the following line to the footer of the commit.

```
Signed-off-by: Full Name <email>

```

Thank you for contributing!
