tests/scripts/remote_monitoring_tests/Remote_monitoring_tests.md, before:

# **Kruize Remote monitoring tests**

Kruize Remote monitoring tests validates the behaviour of [Kruize remote monitoring APIs](/design/MonitoringModeAPI.md) 
using various positive and negative scenarios. These tests are developed using pytest framework. 

## Tests description
### **Create Experiment API tests**

Here are the test scenarios:
- Create a single valid experiment json to the API
- Create multiple valid experiments using a single json
- Create multiple valid experiments using different jsons
- Create multiple experiments with the same kubernetes obj type, name and namespace
- Post an experiment with multiple containers with different images & container names
- Test with invalid values such as blank, null or an invalid value for various keys in the createExperiment json
- Post an invalid header content type
- Post the same experiment again
- Post experiments with conflicting parameters
- PerformanceProfile & Slo
- Deployment name & selector
- Validate error messages when the mandatory fields are missing
- Create namespace experiment specifying namespace experiment type
- Create namespace experiment without specifying experiment type
- Create container experiment specifying container experiment type
- Create container experiment without specifying experiment type
- Create experiment specifying both namespaces and containers without specifying the experiment type
- Create experiment specifying both namespaces and containers specifying the namespace experiment type
- Create experiment specifying both namespaces and containers specifying the container experiment type
- Create namespace experiment specifying containers
- Create container experiment specifying namespaces
- Create multiple namespace experiments with valid namespace
- Validate the experiment for the presence of experiment_type, creation_date and update_date along with its default values using listExperiments

### **Update Results API tests**

Here are the test scenarios:

- Update results for a single valid experiment
- Update multiple results for a single valid experiment
- Update results for multiple experiments using a single json
- Update results for multiple experiments using multiple jsons
- Update results for multiple experiments with multiple containers using a single json
- Update results for containers that are not present during creation of the experiment
- Update results for an invalid experiment or a non-existing experiment
- Test with invalid values such as blank, null or an invalid value for various keys in the updateResults json
- Update the same results twice for the same experiment

Namespace Related Test Scenarios:
Sanity Tests
- Update results for a single valid namespace experiment
- Update multiple valid results in a single json for a single namespace experiment
- Update multiple valid results for a namespace experiment (uses a loop)
- Update results test with supported cpu and memory format types
- Update the same results twice for the same namespace experiment
- Update results with valid invalid interval duration

Negative Tests

- Update Results Namespace experiment for invalid tests
- Update Results Namespace experiment for missing metrics & missing mandatory metrics
- Update results with metric values as 0 and generate recommendations (skip)
- Create a container experiment and upload namespace results for this exp
- Create a namespace experiment and upload container results for this exp
- Create a container experiment and upload bulk results with a few of them containing namespace results
- Create a namespace experiment and upload bulk results with a few of them containing container results
- Update Results for Namespace experiment without creating the experiment

### **List Recommendation API tests**


Here are the test scenarios:

- List recommendations specifying a valid experiment name
- List recommendations without specifying any parameters
- List recommendations for a single experiment with multiple results posted in a single json
- List recommendations for multiple experiments created using multiple jsons and results from multiple jsons
- List recommendations for multiple experiments after updating results with
  - some of the non-mandatory metrics (for example, memoryLimit/memoryRequest etc) missing
  - with invalid kubernetes object type
- List recommendations with parameters by specifying the following parameters:
  /listRecommendations?experiment_name=<experiment_name>&latest=false
  /listRecommendations?experiment_name=<experiment_name>&latest=true
  /listRecommendations?experiment_name=<experiment_name>&monitoring_end_time=<valid_timestamp>
- List recommendations after creating an experiment but without updating results
- List recommendations with invalid parameter values for experiment_name & monitoring_end_time
  - Non-existing experiment_name
  - Non-existing time stamp, incorrect timestamp format
- List recommendations after sending 15 days of constant results matching requests and limits
- List recommendations with valid and invalid notification codes
- List recommendations with valid and invalid minimum data threshold
  - Valid contiguous and non-contiguous minimum data points for each term
  - Invalid minimum data points for each term
- List recommendations with minimum data threshold exceeding the max duration for each term
  - with non-contiguous data points exceeding the max duration fixed for each term
- List recommendations with data available for some terms
  - for contiguous data:
    - no data available
    - all data available
    - only short_term data available
    - only medium_term data available
    - only long_term data available
    - short_term and medium_term data available
    - short_term and long_term data available
    - medium_term and long_term data available
  - for non-contiguous data:
    - similar tests as mentioned above for contiguous

Namespace Related Test Scenarios:
Sanity Tests
- List recommendations with valid recommendations for all terms
- List recommendations without results

Negative Tests
- _To be updated_


### **Update Recommendation API tests**


Here are the test scenarios:

- Update recommendations with valid results and plots available
- Update recommendations with no plots available when no recommendations available for medium and long term
- Update recommendations with just interval_end_time in input
- Update recommendations without experiment name or end_time
- Update recommendations without end_time
- Update recommendations with invalid end_time format
- Update recommendations with unknown experiment_name
- Update recommendations with unknown end_time
- Update recommendations with end_time preceding start_time

Namespace Related Test Scenarios:
Sanity Tests
- Update recommendations with valid short term recommendations. Also, Validate the container array, should be blank.

Negative Tests
- _To be updated_

The above tests are developed using pytest framework and the tests are run using shell script wrapper that does the following:
- Deploys kruize in non-CRD mode using the [deploy script](https://github.com/kruize/autotune/blob/master/deploy.sh) from the autotune repo
- Creates a resource optimization performance profile using the [createPerformanceProfile API](/design/PerformanceProfileAPI.md)
- Runs the above tests using pytest

## Prerequisites for running the tests:
- Minikube setup or access to Openshift cluster
- Tools like kubectl, oc, curl, jq, python
- Various python modules pytest, json, pytest-html, requests, jinja2
  (these modules will be automatically installed while the test is run)

## How to run the test?

Use the below command to test :

```
<KRUIZE_REPO>/tests/test_autotune.sh -c minikube -r [location of benchmarks]  [-i kruize image] [--tctype=functional] [--testmodule=Autotune module to be tested] [--testsuite=Group of tests that you want to perform] [--testcase=Particular test case that you want to test] [-n namespace] [--resultsdir=results directory] [--skipsetup]
```

Where values for test_autotune.sh are:

```
usage: test_autotune.sh [ -c ] : cluster type. Supported type - minikube, openshift. Default - minikube
                        [ -i ] : optional. Kruize docker image to be used for testing, default - kruize/autotune_operator:test
			[ -r ] : Location of benchmarks. Not required for remote_monitoring_tests
			[ --tctype ] : optional. Testcases type to run, default is functional (runs all functional tests)
			[ --testmodule ]: Module to be tested. Use testmodule=help, to list the modules to be tested
			[ --testsuite ] : Testsuite to run. Use testsuite=help, to list the supported testsuites
			[ --testcase ] : Testcase to run. Use testcase=help along with the testsuite name to list the supported testcases in that testsuite
			[ -n ] : optional. Namespace to deploy autotune
			[ --resultsdir ] : optional. Results directory location, by default it creates the results directory in current working directory
			[ --skipsetup ] : optional. Specifying this option skips the Kruize setup and performance profile creation in case of remote_monitoring_tests

Note: If you want to run a particular testcase then it is mandatory to specify the testsuite
Test cases supported are sanity, negative, extended and test_e2e

```

To run all the remote monitoring tests,

```
<KRUIZE_REPO>/tests/test_autotune.sh -c minikube --testsuite=remote_monitoring_tests --resultsdir=/home/results
```

To run only the sanity remote monitoring tests,

```
<KRUIZE_REPO>/tests/test_autotune.sh -c minikube --testsuite=remote_monitoring_tests --testcase=sanity --resultsdir=/home/results
```

Remote monitoring tests can also be run without using the test_autotune.sh. To do this, follow the below steps:

- Deploy Kruize using the deploy.sh from the kruize autotune repo
- Create the performance profile by using the [createPerformanceProfile API](/design/PerformanceProfileAPI.md)
- cd <KRUIZE_REPO>/tests/scripts/remote_monitoring_tests
- python3 -m pip install --user -r requirements.txt
- cd rest_apis
- To run all sanity tests
```
	pytest -m sanity --html=<dir>/report.html --cluster_type <minikube|openshift>
```
- To run only sanity tests for listRecommendations API --cluster_type <minikube|openshift>
```
	pytest -m sanity --html=<dir>/report.html test_list_recommendations.py
```
- To run only a specific test within listRecommendations API
```
	pytest -s test_list_recommendations.py::test_list_recommendations_single_exp --cluster_type <minikube|openshift>
```

Note: You can check the report.html for the results as it provides better readability

Commit message:

update params in the test function, update ReadMe
Signed-off-by: Saad Khan <saakhan@ibm.com>

tests/scripts/remote_monitoring_tests/Remote_monitoring_tests.md, after:

# **Kruize Remote monitoring tests**

Kruize Remote monitoring tests validates the behaviour of [Kruize remote monitoring APIs](/design/MonitoringModeAPI.md) 
using various positive and negative scenarios. These tests are developed using pytest framework. 

## Tests description
### **Create Experiment API tests**

Here are the test scenarios:
- Create a single valid experiment json to the API
- Create multiple valid experiments using a single json
- Create multiple valid experiments using different jsons
- Create multiple experiments with the same kubernetes obj type, name and namespace
- Post an experiment with multiple containers with different images & container names
- Test with invalid values such as blank, null or an invalid value for various keys in the createExperiment json
- Post an invalid header content type
- Post the same experiment again
- Post experiments with conflicting parameters
- PerformanceProfile & Slo
- Deployment name & selector
- Validate error messages when the mandatory fields are missing
- Create namespace experiment specifying namespace experiment type
- Create namespace experiment without specifying experiment type
- Create container experiment specifying container experiment type
- Create container experiment without specifying experiment type
- Create experiment specifying both namespaces and containers without specifying the experiment type
- Create experiment specifying both namespaces and containers specifying the namespace experiment type
- Create experiment specifying both namespaces and containers specifying the container experiment type
- Create namespace experiment specifying containers
- Create container experiment specifying namespaces
- Create multiple namespace experiments with valid namespace
- Validate the experiment for the presence of experiment_type, creation_date and update_date along with its default values using listExperiments

### **Update Results API tests**

Here are the test scenarios:

- Update results for a single valid experiment
- Update multiple results for a single valid experiment
- Update results for multiple experiments using a single json
- Update results for multiple experiments using multiple jsons
- Update results for multiple experiments with multiple containers using a single json
- Update results for containers that are not present during creation of the experiment
- Update results for an invalid experiment or a non-existing experiment
- Test with invalid values such as blank, null or an invalid value for various keys in the updateResults json
- Update the same results twice for the same experiment

Namespace Related Test Scenarios:
Sanity Tests
- Update results for a single valid namespace experiment
- Update multiple valid results in a single json for a single namespace experiment
- Update multiple valid results for a namespace experiment (uses a loop)
- Update results test with supported cpu and memory format types
- Update the same results twice for the same namespace experiment
- Update results with valid invalid interval duration

Negative Tests

- Update Results Namespace experiment for invalid tests
- Update Results Namespace experiment for missing metrics & missing mandatory metrics
- Update results with metric values as 0 and generate recommendations (skip)
- Create a container experiment and upload namespace results for this exp
- Create a namespace experiment and upload container results for this exp
- Create a container experiment and upload bulk results with a few of them containing namespace results
- Create a namespace experiment and upload bulk results with a few of them containing container results
- Update Results for Namespace experiment without creating the experiment

### **List Recommendation API tests**


Here are the test scenarios:

- List recommendations specifying a valid experiment name
- List recommendations without specifying any parameters
- List recommendations for a single experiment with multiple results posted in a single json
- List recommendations for multiple experiments created using multiple jsons and results from multiple jsons
- List recommendations for multiple experiments after updating results with
  - some of the non-mandatory metrics (for example, memoryLimit/memoryRequest etc) missing
  - with invalid kubernetes object type
- List recommendations with parameters by specifying the following parameters:
  /listRecommendations?experiment_name=<experiment_name>&latest=false
  /listRecommendations?experiment_name=<experiment_name>&latest=true
  /listRecommendations?experiment_name=<experiment_name>&monitoring_end_time=<valid_timestamp>
- List recommendations after creating an experiment but without updating results
- List recommendations with invalid parameter values for experiment_name & monitoring_end_time
  - Non-existing experiment_name
  - Non-existing time stamp, incorrect timestamp format
- List recommendations after sending 15 days of constant results matching requests and limits
- List recommendations with valid and invalid notification codes
- List recommendations with valid and invalid minimum data threshold
  - Valid contiguous and non-contiguous minimum data points for each term
  - Invalid minimum data points for each term
- List recommendations with minimum data threshold exceeding the max duration for each term
  - with non-contiguous data points exceeding the max duration fixed for each term
- List recommendations with data available for some terms
  - for contiguous data:
    - no data available
    - all data available
    - only short_term data available
    - only medium_term data available
    - only long_term data available
    - short_term and medium_term data available
    - short_term and long_term data available
    - medium_term and long_term data available
  - for non-contiguous data:
    - similar tests as mentioned above for contiguous

Namespace Related Test Scenarios:
Sanity Tests
- List recommendations with valid recommendations for all terms
- List recommendations without results

Negative Tests
- _To be updated_


### **Update Recommendation API tests**


Here are the test scenarios:

- Update recommendations with valid results and plots available
- Update recommendations with no plots available when no recommendations available for medium and long term
- Update recommendations with just interval_end_time in input
- Update recommendations without experiment name or end_time
- Update recommendations without end_time
- Update recommendations with invalid end_time format
- Update recommendations with unknown experiment_name
- Update recommendations with unknown end_time
- Update recommendations with end_time preceding start_time

Namespace Related Test Scenarios:
Sanity Tests
- Update recommendations with valid short term recommendations. Also, Validate the container array, should be blank.

Negative Tests
- _To be updated_

Extended Tests
- Update recommendations with valid recommendations for namespace experiments for all the terms for multiple experiments posted using different json files.

The above tests are developed using pytest framework and the tests are run using shell script wrapper that does the following:
- Deploys kruize in non-CRD mode using the [deploy script](https://github.com/kruize/autotune/blob/master/deploy.sh) from the autotune repo
- Creates a resource optimization performance profile using the [createPerformanceProfile API](/design/PerformanceProfileAPI.md)
- Runs the above tests using pytest

## Prerequisites for running the tests:
- Minikube setup or access to Openshift cluster
- Tools like kubectl, oc, curl, jq, python
- Various python modules pytest, json, pytest-html, requests, jinja2
  (these modules will be automatically installed while the test is run)

## How to run the test?

Use the below command to test :

```
<KRUIZE_REPO>/tests/test_autotune.sh -c minikube -r [location of benchmarks]  [-i kruize image] [--tctype=functional] [--testmodule=Autotune module to be tested] [--testsuite=Group of tests that you want to perform] [--testcase=Particular test case that you want to test] [-n namespace] [--resultsdir=results directory] [--skipsetup]
```

Where values for test_autotune.sh are:

```
usage: test_autotune.sh [ -c ] : cluster type. Supported type - minikube, openshift. Default - minikube
                        [ -i ] : optional. Kruize docker image to be used for testing, default - kruize/autotune_operator:test
			[ -r ] : Location of benchmarks. Not required for remote_monitoring_tests
			[ --tctype ] : optional. Testcases type to run, default is functional (runs all functional tests)
			[ --testmodule ]: Module to be tested. Use testmodule=help, to list the modules to be tested
			[ --testsuite ] : Testsuite to run. Use testsuite=help, to list the supported testsuites
			[ --testcase ] : Testcase to run. Use testcase=help along with the testsuite name to list the supported testcases in that testsuite
			[ -n ] : optional. Namespace to deploy autotune
			[ --resultsdir ] : optional. Results directory location, by default it creates the results directory in current working directory
			[ --skipsetup ] : optional. Specifying this option skips the Kruize setup and performance profile creation in case of remote_monitoring_tests

Note: If you want to run a particular testcase then it is mandatory to specify the testsuite
Test cases supported are sanity, negative, extended and test_e2e

```

To run all the remote monitoring tests,

```
<KRUIZE_REPO>/tests/test_autotune.sh -c minikube --testsuite=remote_monitoring_tests --resultsdir=/home/results
```

To run only the sanity remote monitoring tests,

```
<KRUIZE_REPO>/tests/test_autotune.sh -c minikube --testsuite=remote_monitoring_tests --testcase=sanity --resultsdir=/home/results
```

Remote monitoring tests can also be run without using the test_autotune.sh. To do this, follow the below steps:

- Deploy Kruize using the deploy.sh from the kruize autotune repo
- Create the performance profile by using the [createPerformanceProfile API](/design/PerformanceProfileAPI.md)
- cd <KRUIZE_REPO>/tests/scripts/remote_monitoring_tests
- python3 -m pip install --user -r requirements.txt
- cd rest_apis
- To run all sanity tests
```
	pytest -m sanity --html=<dir>/report.html --cluster_type <minikube|openshift>
```
- To run only sanity tests for listRecommendations API --cluster_type <minikube|openshift>
```
	pytest -m sanity --html=<dir>/report.html test_list_recommendations.py
```
- To run only a specific test within listRecommendations API
```
	pytest -s test_list_recommendations.py::test_list_recommendations_single_exp --cluster_type <minikube|openshift>
```

Note: You can check the report.html for the results as it provides better readability
