tests/scripts/local_monitoring_tests/bulk_stress_test.md, before:

# **Kruize Bulk API stress test**

Kruize Bulk API stress test validates the behaviour of [Kruize Bulk APIs](/design/BulkAPI.md) by loading these APIs with multiple requests to generate recommendations 

## Tests description
- **Kruize Bulk API stress test**
   The test does the following:
   - Deploys kruize in non-CRD mode using the [deploy script](https://github.com/kruize/autotune/blob/master/deploy.sh) from the autotune repo
   - Creates a resource optimization metric profile using the [createMetricProfile API](/design/MetricProfileAPI.md) 
   - Runs any of the specified tests below:
     - No config test - In this test the Bulk API is invoked parallely with an empty bulk configuration
     - Time range test - In this test the Bulk API is invoked parallely with the same time range. Here the time range
       considered is end time specified by the user and start time will be the difference between the end time and the 
       interval hours
     - Split Time range test - In this test the Bulk API is invoked parallely with different time ranges. Here the 
       time ranges will be split as per the interval hours starting from the end date specified
   - Once the Bulk job is created, the test gets the bulk job status and on completion fetches the recommendations for the processed experiments
  
## Prerequisites for running the tests:
- Minikube setup or access to Openshift cluster
- Tools like kubectl, oc, curl, jq

- To test with Thanos datasource, Thanos setup with tsdb blocks containing usage metrics is required.

## How to run the test?

Use the below command to test :

```
<KRUIZE_REPO>/tests/scripts/local_monitoring_tests/bulk_stress_test/bulk_stress_test.sh [-i Kruize image] [-w No. of workers] [-t interval hours (default - 2)] [-s End date of tsdb block] [-a kruize replicas] [-r <resultsdir path>] [--skipsetup skip kruize setup] [ -z to test with prometheus datasource] [--test Specify the test to be run] [--url Thanos Datasource url]
```

Where values for bulk_stress_test.sh are:

```
usage: bulk_stress_test.sh 
        [ -i ] : optional. Kruize docker image to be used for testing
                 default - quay.io/kruize/autotune:mvp_demo 
	    [ -r ] : Results directory path
	    [ -w ] : No. of parallel workers (default - 5)
        [ -t ] : interval hours (default - 2)
        [ -s ] : Initial end date (default - current date & time)
        [ -a ] : kruize replicas (default - 3)
        [ -z ] : To register prometheus datasource with kruize
        [ --test ] : Specify the test to be run [time_range/no_config/time_range_split] (default - time_range)
        [ --url ]: Thanos datasource url (default - http://thanos-query-frontend-example-query.thanos-operator-system.svc.cluster.local:9090/)]"
        [ --skipsetup ] : skip kruize setup] 
```

For example,

```
<AUTOTUNE_REPO>/tests/scripts/local_monitoring_tests/bulk_stress_test/bulk_stress_test.sh -r /tmp/stress-test-results -i quay.io/kruize/autotune_operator:0.3 -a 1 -z -s "2025-01-28T06:20:00.000Z"
```

Once the tests are complete, verify if there are no errors or exceptions in the logs.

Commit message:

Included days of results as an option and fixed issues with processing recommendations
Signed-off-by: Chandrakala Subramanyam <csubrama@redhat.com>

tests/scripts/local_monitoring_tests/bulk_stress_test.md, after:

# **Kruize Bulk API stress test**

Kruize Bulk API stress test validates the behaviour of [Kruize Bulk APIs](/design/BulkAPI.md) by loading these APIs with multiple requests to generate recommendations 

## Tests description
- **Kruize Bulk API stress test**
   The test does the following:
   - Deploys kruize in non-CRD mode using the [deploy script](https://github.com/kruize/autotune/blob/master/deploy.sh) from the autotune repo
   - Creates a resource optimization metric profile using the [createMetricProfile API](/design/MetricProfileAPI.md) 
   - Runs any of the specified tests below:
     - No config test - In this test the Bulk API is invoked parallely with an empty bulk configuration
     - Time range test - In this test the Bulk API is invoked parallely with the same time range. Here the time range
       considered is end time specified by the user and start time will be the difference between the end time and the 
       interval hours
     - Split Time range test - In this test the Bulk API is invoked parallely with different time ranges. Here the 
       time ranges will be derived by splitting the days of usage metrics or results by the interval hours starting from the end date specified
   - Once the Bulk job is created, the test gets the bulk job status and on completion fetches the recommendations for the processed experiments
  
## Prerequisites for running the tests:
- Minikube setup or access to Openshift cluster
- Tools like kubectl, oc, curl, jq

- To test with Thanos datasource, Thanos setup with tsdb blocks containing usage metrics is required.

## How to run the test?

Use the below command to test :

```
<KRUIZE_REPO>/tests/scripts/local_monitoring_tests/bulk_stress_test/bulk_stress_test.sh [-i Kruize image] [-w No. of workers] [-d No. of day of results] [-t interval hours (default - 2)] [-s End date of tsdb block]
      [-a kruize replicas] [-r <resultsdir path>] [--skipsetup skip kruize setup] [ -z to test with prometheus datasource] [--test Specify the test to be run] [--url Thanos Datasource url]
```

Where values for bulk_stress_test.sh are:

```
usage: bulk_stress_test.sh 
        [ -i ] : optional. Kruize docker image to be used for testing
                 default - quay.io/kruize/autotune:mvp_demo 
	    [ -r ] : Results directory path
	    [ -w ] : No. of parallel workers (default - 5)
	    [ -d ] : No. of days of usage metrics / results (default - 15)
        [ -t ] : interval hours (default - 2)
        [ -s ] : Initial end date (default - current date & time)
        [ -a ] : kruize replicas (default - 3)
        [ -z ] : To register prometheus datasource with kruize
        [ --test ] : Specify the test to be run [time_range/no_config/time_range_split] (default - time_range)
        [ --url ]: Thanos datasource url (default - http://thanos-query-frontend-example-query.thanos-operator-system.svc.cluster.local:9090/)]"
        [ --skipsetup ] : skip kruize setup] 
```

For example, to run the default time_range test with prometheus datasource, execute the below command:

```
<AUTOTUNE_REPO>/tests/scripts/local_monitoring_tests/bulk_stress_test/bulk_stress_test.sh -r /tmp/stress-test-results -i quay.io/kruize/autotune_operator:0.3 -a 1 -z
```
For example, to run the time_range_split test with thanos datasource, execute the below command:

```
<AUTOTUNE_REPO>/tests/scripts/local_monitoring_tests/bulk_stress_test/bulk_stress_test.sh -r /tmp/stress-test-results -i quay.io/kruize/autotune_operator:0.3 -a 1 --test=time_range_split -s "2025-01-28T06:20:00.000Z"
```
Note - Here the TSDB blocks are available for 15 days (which is the default) and have an end date of 2025-01-28T06:20:00.000Z

Once the tests are complete, verify if there are no errors or exceptions in the logs.
